# Rendering files:

The components of `dhall-ci` are useful for defining things (workflows, scripts, etc). But that's not sufficient on its own. [timbertson/dhall-render](https://github.com/timbertson/dhall-render) is a tool which allows you to define a whole set of files, and have them rendered out as YAML / JSON / text.

To initialize dhall-render in a repository, run:

```
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/timbertson/dhall-render/master/bootstrap.sh | bash
```

## Updating files:

`dhall-render` provides a file (which will be generated in your repo) to bump a github dependency. Simply run e.g. `./dhall/bump dhall/dependencies/CI.dhall`.

For dependencies that aren't just pulled from a github commit (e.g. dhall's prelude), you will need to manually edit the version number and then run `dhall freeze --inplace dhall/dependencies/Prelude.dhall`

# Contents:

This repo contains some core types and functionality which is referenced by multiple components. For templates, helpers and opinionated templates you should also import the various components above.

### Bash:

An overly simple, leaky abstraction for authoring bash scripts.

This is in some ways the inverse of `dhall-bash` - that lets you represent dhall data structures in a way that bash scripts can read them, while this provides functions for composing dhall strings and lists into an executable bash script.

This makes no attempt at understanding the syntax or escaping rules for bash, it's really just "a list of lines".

It's not useful for composing expressions, but it _is_ useful for composing commands, conditionals, etc.

It has some opinions, namely that every script shall use `set -eu -o pipefail`. The `renderScript` enforces this, and snippets may not do the right thing if you use them in a script without these settings.

### Make:

Similar to `Bash`, this is a minimal abstraction for defining makefiles.

Because it is designed to represent arbitrary bash snippets (and not make heavy use of make features), makefiles generated by this module set (and rely on) the following features:

 - [`.ONESHELL:`](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/One-Shell.html) is enabled, meaning the entire body of a target is treated as a single command
 - `SHELL`: set to `bash`
 - `.SHELLFLAGS`: set to `-eux -o pipefail`, i.e. `Bash.strict` with tracing enabled
 - each target is prefixed with `.SILENT: targetName`, to prevent make's builtin echoing (it doesn't work well with `.ONESHELL`, and is made redundant by bash's tracing)

When writing your own targets you should be mindful of these non-default options.

### Workflow:

This module contains the types for generating [github workflow](https://help.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions) documents.

It's a minimal wrapping of [regadas/github-actions-dhall](https://github.com/regadas/github-actions-dhall), with the following additions:

 - The toplevel export is the `Workflow` schema, merged with sub-properties for other types (`Job`, `Step`, etc).
 - Addition of the [Env](./Env.dhall), [JobMap](./JobMap.dhall)
 - The [Step](./Step.dhall) contains extra utilities (integration with the [Bash](../Bash/) module, `addEnv`, etc)

# Development workflow

Unfortunately, dhall doesn't make it super easy to "sub in" overrides during development. `dhall-render` provides the `dhall/local` script to make this more convenient. Usage:

```
./dhall/local ./dhall/render
```

This finds all `*.dhall.local` files, and _temporarily_ replaces the corresponding `*.dhall` file, then runs the supplied command.

Upon termination, it restores the original contents of the `*.dhall` files, so it should result in no actual changes to your workspace.
But note that it does actually move files around on disk, so it's not safe to run concurrently.
